# Graaff

Graaff is a bare-bones, opinionated static site generator with a focus on performance and accessibility.

## Introduction

Graaff takes Markdown files that you write and place either in `content/posts` or `content/pages` and generates HTML files that you can serve
as you wish.

Graaff uses Mustache templates to create the HTML files. Learn more [here](https://github.com/janl/mustache.js).

### Prerequisites

- Node.js (current)

### Installing

Install Graaff by running:

```
npm install -g graaff
```

Run the `init` command to set up the boilerplate of a Graaff project

```
graaff init
```

Run the `build` command from the root of your Graaff project to turn Markdown from `content/pages` or `content/posts`
into HTML files that will be placed in the `site` directory.

```
graaff build
```

### Writing Pages and Posts
`graaff` provides special treatment for a file named `index.md`. This file will be converted into the `index.html` file for your site.

Pages can be linked to in your `index.md` file so they are accessible. Alternatively, they can be linked to in navigation that you write in the template files in `layouts` or `partials`.

Posts will be linked in a table of contents in `posts.html` which will be generated for you.

### Front matter
`graaff` uses JSON front matter at the beginning of each `.md` that provides `graaff` with information about your file.

The valid keys are as follows:

Required
- layout: The layout that your post or page will be built with. Omit `.html`.
- title: The title of your post or page

Optional
- slug: The built file will be named `{slug}.html`.

## Deployment

Deploy the HTML files in the `site` directory that are generated by Graaff in any way you want.

Generally, you will want to place the generated files in your web server's root directory.

## Built With

* [mustache.js](https://github.com/janl/mustache.js) - The Mustache templating system
* [marked](https://github.com/markedjs/marked) - Markdown parser and compiler

## Authors

* **Colin Burr** - *Initial work* - [@sw3dish on Github](https://github.com/sw3dish)

## License

This project is licensed under the GNU General Public License v3.0 - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details